# Logging

This page describes the information that your code should provide in all log entries it generates, and some tools fybrik provides to ensure consistency across components.

## Background
* Log entries should be written to stdout and stderr.
* Fybrik does not collect nor aggregate logs.  This may be done by external tools. (ex: logstash, fluentd, etc.)
* A globally unique identifier for each FybrikApplication instance is passed to all control plane and data plane components to be included in log entries.  This enables corrrelation of log entries across different logs and clusters for the specific instance, even if the name of the FybrikApplication is reused over time.

## Log Entry Contents
All fybrik components, whether control plane or data plane components, should write log entries to stdout and stderr in json format.
The contents of the log entries are detailed in fybrik.io/pkg/logging/logging.go.

The fybrik control plane uses [zerolog](github.com/rs/zerolog) for its golang components, and provides a library of fybrik specific helper functions to be used with it.
Examples of how to use zerolog: https://github.com/rs/zerolog/blob/master/log_example_test.go

TBD - fybrik logging helper functions for python and java.

## Log Entry Verbosity
Log levels should be used as follows:

- panic (zerolog.PanicLevel, 5) - Errors that prevent the component from operating correctly and handling requests
     Ex: fybrik control plane did not deploy correctly
	   Ex: Data plane component crashed and cannot handle requests
- fatal (zerolog.FatalLevel, 4) - Errors that prevent the component from successfully completing a particular task
	   Ex: fybrikapplication controller cannot generate a plotter
	   Ex: Arrow/Flight server used to read data cannot access data store
- error (zerolog.ErrorLevel, 3) - Errors that are not fatal nor panic, but that the user / request initiator is made aware of (typical production setting for stable solution)
	   Ex: Dataset requested in fybrikapplication.spec is not allowed to be used
 	   Ex: Query to Arrow/Flight server used to read data returns an error because of incorrect dataset ID
- warn (zerolog.WarnLevel, 2) - Errors not shared with the user / request initiator, typically from which the component recovers on its own
- info (zerolog.InfoLevel, 1) - High level health information that makes it clear the overall status, but without much detail (highest level used in production)
- debug (zerolog.DebugLevel, 0) - Additional information needed to help identify problems (typically used during testing)
- trace (zerolog.TraceLevel, -1) - For tracing step by step flow of control (typically used during development)

## JSON Logging Standard Format
All Fybrik components should generate logging information in a standard format. This information will be used by different actors for different purposes, so as much relevant information as possible needs to be captured in a consistent format.

We list all mandatory and optional fields to be used by all Fybrik components. In addition to the fields we list, Fybrik components may include extra fields as needed.

### Mandatory Fields
The fields in this section are typically generated by the logging libraries.

- level - log level (‘panic’, ‘fatal’, ‘error’, ‘warn’, ‘info’, ‘debug’, or ‘trace’)
- time - timestamp  of the log event.  Timestamps  should  be in ISO8601  format with  time offset from  UTC or timezone. Example: ‘2022-02-16T10:46:21+02:00’
- caller - the code line which generated the error (file name + line number). Example: manager/main.go:319

### Optional Fields
- app.fybrik.io/app-uuid - unique identifier for kubernetes FybrikApplication, used to correlate log messages across components for a particular FybrikApplication instance. It is also unique over time so one may differentiate between FybrikApplication instances with the same name created at different times
- message - string message for the log entry. Either this field or message_id must be included
- message_id - unique identifier indicating the message string that should be used. This is used instead of a message string for messages that need to support internationalization, such as those that go to users
- funcName - method or function in which the error occurred
- DataSetID - unique identifier for the data set
- ForUser - True if this should be shared with the end user in fybrikapplication status or events. False otherwise
- ForArchive - True if this should be archived long term. For example, if it contains full contents of FybrikApplication and its status and should be stored for auditing purposes
- cluster - cluster name on which the process generating the entry ran
- component - name of the component generating the log entry
- action - current operation being called. For example, “create_catalog” or “update_asset”
- response_time - response time of the current operation in milliseconds. Can be used in monitoring dashboards such as Kibana
- error – the error code or message returned to the fybrik component upon an unsuccessful action. Additional context should usually be provided in the accompanying message field

## Environment Variables
- LOGGING_VERBOSITY - should be set to one of the levels described in the previous section.  
- PRETTY_LOGGING - If true log entries are in human readable format.  If false, they are in json. Should only be true during individual development, since json is preferred to enable easy parsing by aggregator tools.

